---
title: "Multics"
layout: post
date: 2022-01-13
image: /assets/images/markdown.jpg
headerImage: false
tag:
- operating systems
category: blog
author: Xiaopeng
hidden: false #don't count this post in blog pagination
description: Multics
---


# Multics
### Five Principles of Protection:
* Base the protection on permission rather than exclusion
* Check every access
* Least Privilege
* Designs are not secrets
* Usability

Multics uses a segmented memory model. There is a segment table (descriptor table) and a page table for every address space. And this memory model and protection system exists in 32-bit mode x86 today. 
Multics takes advantage of the usability aspect of the Access Control List (ACL), and uses ACL for file system protection. However, the downside of ACLs is that ACLs are relatively expensive to use since we need to do protection check for every access. And the advantage of capabilities is that they are much more efficient to check.  
For example, we write a program and want to do read/write to the file system. And the operating system needs to do protection check for every access. Every time we do a file operation, like read, we use a file descriptor, which is a “capability”. And to bootstrap from ACL to capabilities, we need a step. That step is called, opening a file. When we call open, we specify a path name and a set of attributes. The operating system does the protection check with the ACL of the file system. And if the access is verified, operating system will return a file descriptor.   
Going back to the segmented memory model of Multics. In that model, each address space is divided into several segments, and each segment is pointed by a descriptor (capability). Every time we do a virtual address translation, the TLB is doing a protection check. Now, we can do efficient protection check using these descriptors. When we do a memory map to a file, we check the ACL of that file, and return a segment descriptor if the check is passed.  
Multics also has the same goal as Hydra in that Multics wants to enable user-level applications to be protected subsystems and uses the same kind of protection machinery that the operating system normally does. That means, each subsystem has a set of entries, and applications can only enter these subsystems by calling these entry points. For an operating system, these entry points are called system calls. And Multics wants each of these subsystems implement their “system calls”.  
Multics also introduces the protection ring mechanism, which is a generalization of the user-kernel mode we are using today.   
