---
title: "Nucleus"
layout: post
date: 2022-01-06
image: /assets/images/markdown.jpg
headerImage: false
tag:
- operating systems
category: blog
author: Xiaopeng
hidden: false #don't count this post in blog pagination
description: Nucleus
---


# Nucleus  
Goal: To build a multiprogramming system that can be extended with a hierarchy of operating systems to suit diverse requirements of program scheduling and resource allocation.   
An early microkernel operating system.  
### Abstractions of the Nucleus:
- Process: Internal process, external process (H/W devices). Process hierarchy.  
- IPC: messages.  
- Interrupt handlers.  
- Scheduling.  
- Resource allocation & memory protection: Nucleus exposes a memory region and grants that region to a process. In this way, the resource allocation decisions are pushed to user level.  

### Economy of abstractions    
Designs a small number of APIs and reuses them. In Nucleus, it reuses the process communication API for peripherals (the concept of the external process). Unix uses this economy of abstractions as well. In Unix, everything is a file. 

### Use messages for synchronizations  
Nucleus uses messages (an existing API) to handle synchronizations. And a good thing of using messages is when a process is terminated, the Nucleus will reply any unanswered messages on behalf of the terminated process.

### Drawbacks of messages  
Another scarce resource, the buffer, is introduced and needs to be managed. Nucleus just gives each process a fixed set of buffers, and if a process wants to send a message, it has to send the message using one of its own buffers.
