---
title: "Google Spanner"
layout: post
date: 2022-06-05
image: /assets/images/markdown.jpg
headerImage: false
tag:
- distributed systems
- Transactions
category: blog
author: Xiaopeng
hidden: false #don't count this post in blog pagination
description: Google Spanner
---

# Spanner
Guarantees: Serializability & linearizability  
1.	Read/Write Transactions  
Just Paxos groups + two-phase locks/two-phase commits.  
Problem: It is slow, around 10-100ms per transaction.  
2.	Read Only Transactions  

### A simple but incorrect idea: Read the recent value from local machine. Why this idea does not work? 
 
T1: RWC  
T2: --------->RWC  
T3: ---->R1--------->R2  
This is NOT serializable!  

Then, how?  

### Snapshot Isolation -> Provides serializability for Spanner  
Imagine all the servers have synchronized clocks.   
Each Transaction is assigned a timestamp.   
For R/W transactions, the timestamp is the time at the commit.   
For R/O transactions, the timestamp is the start time.  


A multiple-version database: For each database record, it has multiple version records associated with different timestamps. The read transactions will read the record with the highest timestamp less than their timestamp.  

#####  What if the local shard is not in the Paxos majority for the latest write? In this situation, read operation may still read stale data?  
- “Safe Time” mechanism. The local shard will only reply the read operation after it gets a larger timestamp from Paxos leader than that of the read operation. That ensures the replicas don’t answer a request for a given timestamp until they are guaranteed to know everything from the leader.   


##### New Problem: It is basically impossible to get perfectly synchronized clocks.  
- What if R/O transactions timestamp is too large? Correct but slow. Replicas will wait until they get a larger timestamp from the leader.   
- What if R/O transactions timestamp is too small? Miss recent committed writes -> A violation of the external consistency.   

##### Solution
“True Time”: [earliest, latest]   
Two Rules: Start & Commit Wait  

### Synchronized timestamp and these two rules provide external consistency for Spanner.  
#### Start Rule: Timestamp should be the “latest” of the “true time*” (TS = TT.now().latest)  
*For R/W transactions, the “true time” is the time at the commit. For R/O transactions, the true time is the start time.  
#### Commit Wait Rule, Only for R/W transactions: A R/W transaction(the transaction coordinator) has to delay until commit timestamp < TT.now().earliest  


In this way, when the commit wait is finished, the timestamp of the transaction is absolutely guaranteed to be in the past.  

