---
title: "Xen"
layout: post
date: 2022-02-10
image: /assets/images/markdown.jpg
headerImage: false
tag:
- operating systems
- virtualization
category: blog
author: Xiaopeng
hidden: false #don't count this post in blog pagination
description: Xen
---

# Xen and Paravirtualization  
1.	### CPU virtualization  
Paravirtualization means modifying the guest OS. Every privileged instruction in the original operating system code will be changed into a hyper call into Xen.   
VMware wants to run guest OS code unmodified and uses the binary translation method, which translates the instructions on the fly.   
2.	### Memory virtualization  
Xen uses the approach of Exokernel and exposes the underlying machine pages to the operating systems. Xen gives physical pages to OS, and verifies every update (Is that machine page assigned to that OS?).   
VMware uses shadow page tables.  
3.	### I/O virtualization  
Xen has a special trusted virtual machine, called Domain 0. Dom0 is used to run all the control software. For example, if we want to start a new virtual machine, we need to login to Dom0 and run Xen utilities to configure and run a new VM. Dom0 also has all the device drivers and these device drivers are allowed to access devices directly. For other guest operating systems, they are modified to add emulated devices like emulated ethernet cards. For example, if a guest OS wants to send a packet, its device driver will send the packet to the emulated ethernet card. The emulated ethernet card will deliver the packet to Dom0, who will take the packet and use the real device driver to interact with the real ethernet card to transmit the packet over the network.    

